Welcome my friend to today's
lecture on adjective.
We're about to make the complicated,
ridiculously clear on this concept
with this tutorial concept explanation.
All right, my friends.
Let's dive straight into what
an adjective actually is.
Think of it as a super helpful
word, a description expert, if
you will, that loves to tell us
more about a noun or a pronoun.
It's not just sitting there.
No, no.
It provides extra information.
Painting a clearer picture by telling
us about its quality, quantity number,
or simply what kind of thing it is.
When you are trying to figure out
if a word is an adjective, just
ask yourself these questions.
What kind?
How many.
Which one or whose, for instance, when
we say big house, big is busy telling
us the size of the house, right?
Five friends tells us
the number of friends.
Quite precisely.
A beautiful flower describes
its lovely quality and.
Indian cuisine straight up tells you
the origin of that delicious food.
Now, these clever adjectives can either
chill out before the noun they're
describing like big in big house.
We call them attribute adjectives, or
they can show up after a linking verb.
Becoming a predicated adjective as in the
flour, is beautiful, simple, isn't it?
Just like adding a dash of extra
masala to your regular dish.
Real world relevance.
Now, why is understanding adjectives
so important, especially for
those of you aiming for a career?
Well, my friends, it's not
just about passing your exam.
It's about clear and precise
communication, and that, my
dear, is absolutely vital.
First off for clear communication.
Using precise adjectives helps you
convey accurate information about
all those complex financial products
and services to your clients.
No room for confusion there.
A. Imagine trying to sell a loan versus
a flexible low interest home loan.
Big difference.
Then we have report writing adjectives,
enable precise descriptions in all your
financial reports, risk assessments,
and those crucial market analysis You.
Can't just say market.
You need volatile market or stable market.
Precision is key.
And finally, in client interaction,
knowing your adjectives helps in
effectively describing client needs
or even their account statuses.
This naturally leads to
much, much better service.
It's like knowing exactly which
button to press to get the perfect.
Breakdown of question types.
All right, my friends.
Let's talk strategy for your exam
in the English language section.
Questions related to adjectives
pop up primarily in a few
common formats, roughly.
Error spotting takes about 40% of the pie.
Here you'll be identifying grammatical
errors related to adjective usage,
like getting the degree of comparison
all wrong, picking the wrong
adjective, or even misplacing One
then comes sentence improvement or
correction, which accounts for about.
30%. Here you'll be choosing the
correct option to replace an underlined
art of a sentence that you guessed
it contains an adjective error.
Next, fill in the blanks covers
20%, where you simply select the
most appropriate adjective from
the given options to complete a
sentence logically and grammatically.
And finally, phrase replacement
or sentence completion
makes up the remaining 10%.
This is quite similar to sentence
improvement, but it specifically
focuses on replacing a phrase
with an adjective or an a phrase.
So you see, knowing your adjectives
is like having a secret weapon.
Formulas and tricks.
Now for the LY formulas and
tricks, pay close attention.
This is where the magic happens.
First up, degrees of comparison for
adjectives with one or two syllables.
It's simple.
Just add, uh, for the comparative
and s for the superlative.
Think small, smaller, smallest.
Easy peasy lemon squeezy.
But when you hit adjectives with
three or more syllables, you switch
to using more for comparative and
most for superlative, for example.
Important.
More important, most important.
No, uh, or est there, mind you.
And then we have those
irregular adjectives.
These are the rebels.
They don't follow the rules, so you
just have to memorize their forms,
like, good, better, best or bad,
worse, worst, and much, many more.
Most just mug them up.
No shortcut there.
Now this is a gem.
Absolute adjectives.
Some adjectives like perfect,
unique, complete, excellent,
or excellent or impossible.
Denote an absolute state.
They are what they are.
They can't be more perfect or most unique.
Think about it.
How can something be more unique?
It's either unique or it's not right?
These words are.
O-S-A-S-C-O-M-P.
When you have a bunch of adjectives
trying to describe a single noun,
they can't just line up anywhere.
There's a proper cue,
a h rocking my friends.
It generally follows this order opinion
like beautiful, lovely, then size.
Big, small age old, new shape, round
square color, red, blue origin,
Indian French material, wooden silk.
And finally, purpose
sleeping bag, running shoes.
So if you say a beautiful, small, old
round red Indian wooden writing table,
you are following the perfect order.
Wow.
Don't get confusion between
adjectives and adverbs.
Remember an adjective
is a nouns best friend.
It describes a noun or pronoun, an
adverb on the other hand, is for verbs,
adjectives, or even other adverbs.
Make sure you use the correct form.
He is a quick runner here.
Quick is an adjective modifying
runner, but he runs quickly.
Here.
Quickly is an adverb modifying runs.
See the difference.
One is describing him, the
other is describing how he runs.
Then the classic confusion,
fewer versus less.
This one trips up many fewer
is for countable amounts.
Things you can count individually,
like fewer books or fewer friends.
Less is for uncountable nouns.
Things you can't count individually.
Think less water, less time or less drama.
Simple once you get it.
And finally, elder or eldest versus
older or oldest elder and eldest
are specifically for family members.
You'd say?
My elder brother, not my older brother.
If you're talking about your sibling.
Older and oldest are for
general age comparison.
So this building is older than
that one is perfectly fine.
It's all about context, my
friends methods of solving.
All right.
Let's talk about the practical methods for
tackling adjective questions in your exam.
First, identify the word being modified.
This is step one, the foundation.
Locate the noun or pronoun that the
adjective is supposed to describe.
This helps you figure out if an adjective
is even needed, and if so, what kind.
Simple right next.
Check for degrees of comparison.
If the sentence is making a comparison
between two or more items, immediately
ensure that the correct degree, positive,
comparative, or superlative is being used.
Be on the lookout for keywords
like Dan for comparative or
the before a superlative.
These are your clues.
Then verify adjective order.
If you see multiple adjectives hanging
out together, check if they are
following our famous O-S-A-S-C-O-M rule.
If they're all jumbled up, rearrange them
in your mind for grammatical correctness.
It's like organizing your wardrobe.
A very important step is to
distinguish from adverbs.
Always confirm that the word
modifying a noun or pronoun is indeed
an adjective and not an adverb.
Remember, adverbs typically
end in LY, but not always.
So stay sharp.
Always scrutinize, quantifiers.
For quantities, double check that fewer
and less are being used correctly,
matching them with countable and
uncountable nouns, respectively.
This is a common trap.
Also look for absolute adjectives.
Quickly identify if any of those absolute
adjectives are being used incorrectly
with comparative or superlative forms.
No, most unique or more
perfect, please, my friends.
And finally, don't just stop at grammar.
Always consider contextual
appropriateness.
Does the chosen adjective
actually make logical sense in
the context of the sentence?
Sometimes a word can be
grammatically correct, but
just sound odd or outta place.
Use your common sense.
It's your best friend, shortcuts
and smart techniques now for some
clever shortcuts and smart techniques
to save you time in the exam.
Scan for Dan or the, this is a golden
rule in error spotting questions.
If you spot Dan immediately look
for a comparative adjective.
If you see the look for a
superlative adjective, a very
common error is a missing.
The before a superlative,
so keep an eye out for it.
Count syllables for degree.
A quick trick rapidly count the syllables
for adjectives to quickly determine if you
should use uh, or S or more or most for
their comparative and superlative forms.
It's a quick mental check.
Identify common confusions.
Train your eye to instantly
spot common pitfalls.
Think good versus well, fewer
versus less elder versus older.
These are repeat
offenders, so be vigilant.
Eliminate obvious adverb options
in multiple choice questions.
If an option is a word ending in ly and
it's presented as an adjective choice
for a noun, it's almost certainly
incorrect, unless, of course, it's
one of those tricky adjectives that
also ends in LY, like friendly.
But generally, if it's meant to describe
a noun and ends in LY, be suspicious.
Subject verb, object, adjective
flow, mentally break down sentences
into their core components.
This helps you clearly see what the
adjective is actually modifying and
whether it's doing its job correctly.
Quick check for absolute adjectives.
Have a mental checklist of
absolute adjectives ready.
This way you can quickly spot
any incorrect, comparative, or
superlative usage involving them.
Common mistakes and misconceptions.
Or, write my friends, let's shine
a light on the common pitfalls, the
traps that many candidates fall into.
Don't be one of them.
The biggest one is incorrect
degree of comparison.
You'll often say more happier
instead of just happier.
That's a double comparative, a big no-no.
Or most best, instead of simply,
best, which is a double superlative.
Remember, one is enough.
Next, confusion between
adjectives and adverbs.
This is a classic using an adjective where
an adverb is clearly needed, like saying
he sings good instead of he sings well.
Remember good describes a noun well,
describes how something is done.
Then misplacing adjectives.
Placing an adjective in the wrong
spot can make your sentence sound
utterly confusing or just plain wrong.
For example, she bought a new red
car is correct, saying she bought a
red new car is an incorrect order.
Always keep O-S-A-C-O-M-P in mind.
Using absolute adjectives
with degrees is another one.
Please know.
Most unique or more perfect.
These adjectives describe
absolute complete states.
They can't be more or most of anything.
They're already there.
And the fewer, less dilemma,
incorrect usage of fewer and less
saying less people is incorrect.
It should be fewer people
because people are countable
Similarly, fewer sugar is wrong.
It should be less sugar
because sugar is uncountable.
Get this right.
It's fundamental.
While not a grammatical error,
overuse of adjectives can make your
writing cumbersome and unclear.
Sometimes simplicity is elegance.
Don't just stuff adjectives everywhere,
like extra clothes in a suitcase.
And finally, a common misconception,
assuming all L words are adverbs,
while many adverbs do end in LY,
remember some words that end in LY are
actually adjectives, think friendly,
lively, lovely, costly, elderly.
So don't jump to conclusions
just because of an LY ending.
WH framework summary.
Let's quickly sum up this concept
using our familiar WH framework.
So what is an adjective?
It's a word that describes or
modifies a noun or a pronoun.
Simple as that.
Why do we use them to add detail,
clarity, and specificity to nouns
and pronouns in our sentences.
They give life to our descriptions.
When do we use them?
We use them when we want to provide
more information about a noun,
quality, quantity, or characteristic.
Where are they found?
You'll typically find them in
sentences, usually before nouns
or after linking verbs patiently
waiting to describe something.
Who uses them?
Well, speakers, writers, and frankly,
all learners of a language, use
them to enrich their descriptions
and make things more vivid.
And how are they applied By placing
them appropriately in a sentence
to modify the intended word.
Often following specific
rules of order and comparison.
It's like placing the right
spice in the right dish.
Fully worked out.
Examples.
All right, my friends.
Let's solidify our understanding
with some fully worked out examples.
This is where theory meets practice.
Example, one degree of comparison.
Question, the new policy is A, more
better B, better C, most better
D, good than the previous one.
Options A more better.
B, better C, most better.
D, good.
Understand the question before moving
to explanation, step-by-step solution.
Step one first, let's
analyze the sentence.
See that word then in the sentence that
immediately tells us a comparison is
happening between two things, the new
policy and the previous one, step two.
So we need to identify the
type of adjective needed.
Since it's a comparison between two items,
we definitely need a comparative degree.
Adjective.
No positive, no superlative here.
Step three.
Now let's evaluate the options one by one.
A more better.
Better is already the
comparative form of good.
Adding more makes it a double comparative,
which is grammatically incorrect.
It's like seeing more, more good.
B better.
Ah, this is the correct
comparative form of good.
It fits perfectly.
C most better.
Most is for the superlative degree
used when comparing three or more
things and better is comparative.
So this is a confused option.
Incorrect D. Good.
This is the positive degree used
when no comparison is being made.
Not appropriate Here is it?
Step four.
Finally, we select the correct option.
The correct comparative form is simply
better correct answer is option B, better
example, two adjective adverb, confusion.
Question.
She sings A real good.
B, really good.
C, really well D. Good when
she's performing on stage.
Options A real good B, really
good C. Really well D. Good.
Understand the question
before moving to explanation.
Step-by-step solution.
Step one, let's identify
the word being modified.
The word we are interested
in here is the verb sings.
We need a word that
tells us how she sings.
Step two now, determine if an
adjective or adverb is needed.
Since we are describing how a verb is
performed, we absolutely need an adverb.
Adjectives describe nouns.
Adverbs describe verbs.
Clear, right.
Step three.
Time to evaluate the options.
A real good here, real is an adjective,
and good is also an adjective.
This phrase uses two adjectives, neither
of which correctly modifies the verb.
Sings real, should be really
an adverb and good should be.
Well, also an adverb.
It's like trying to put
square pegs in round holes.
B really good, really is an
adverb, which is good so far.
But good is still an adjective.
We need an adverb to describe the verb.
Sings still not quite there.
C really well.
Ah, this looks promising,
really is an adverb.
Modifying well and well is an adverb
that correctly modifies the verb Sings.
This is the perfect pair.
D. Good.
This is purely an adjective.
It would work if we were describing a
noun, like she is a good singer, but not
for describing the action of singing.
Step four, so we select the correct
option, the correct adverbs to
describe things are really well correct
answer is option C. Really well.
Example, three order
of adjectives question.
My grandmother bought A, a beautiful
antique wooden small, B, small, beautiful
antique wooden C, small wooden antique,
beautiful D, beautiful small antique
wooden box at the auction options.
A beautiful antique wooden small,
B, small, beautiful antique wooden
C, small wooden antique, beautiful
D, beautiful small antique wooden.
Understand the question
before moving to explanation.
Step-by-step solution.
Step one.
First, let's identify the noun.
The noun being described.
Here is the box.
Simple enough.
Step two, now list the
adjectives and the categories.
Let's break them down.
Beautiful.
That's an opinion, right?
Small, that tells us about size.
Antique that indicates its age
wooden, and that's the material
it's made of Step three.
Time to apply the os.
A comp rule.
Order of adjectives.
Remember our VIPQ opinion size.
Age, shape, color,
origin, material, purpose.
Following this order, opinion, beautiful
size, small age, antique material, wooden.
Step four, let's formulate the
correct order based on OSAs
comp, the correct sequences.
Beautiful, small, antique, wooden.
Step five.
Finally, we evaluate the options.
A beautiful antique wooden,
small incorrect order.
Antique, again, age comes before wooden
material and small, which is wrong.
B, small, beautiful, antique wooden,
incorrect order, small, which is size.
Is before beautiful opinion.
Opinion always comes first.
C, small, wooden, antique, beautiful.
Completely incorrect order.
This one is all over the place.
D. Beautiful small antique wooden, bingo.
This one perfectly matches
our OSA comp order.
Correct answer is option D.
Beautiful, small, antique wooden.
Thank you.
See you in the next lecture.